[music playing] Previously
on "Dance Moms"--
- I just want Kelly back.
- I know.
That's the plan.
Girls, where are you?
I'm going to replace the entire team.
Melissa, this is Abby.
You are losing your mind
if you're gonna jeopardize
Maddie and Mackenzie.
They're replacing our kids.
Well, welcome!
- Thank you.
- My new Maddie-- I'm thrilled.
MELISSA: Sofia is on top of the pyramid,
and she's not even here.
ABBY: My next routine
will be a duet with Maddie and Kendall.
ABBY (VOICEOVER):
Coming up on "Dance Moms"--
I want to make sure that
you're all aware your replacements
will be at the competition.
GLORIA: They really
like making fun of our kids.
[laughs] ABBY: Sorry.
Could you quit running up
to the mirror so close?
Think!
Mackenzie forgets her dance on stage.
She goes completely blank.
MELISSA: You now what? You risked--
- My daughter is special.
- ABBY: --your kids on Paige and Brooke.
You know we all make mistakes, Abby.
ABBY: We love you.
We were ready to work with you
and you sat out there!
I'm sorry.
That was hurtful!
[theme music]
(SINGING) Get up!
Get on the floor.
My world is with my girls,
living on the dance floor.
[music playing]
GIANNA: Hey, Ab, Devin
just called the studio.
Oh, from the competition?
What did he want?
He just left a message. I don't know.
Hi Devin, this is Abby from
the Abby Lee Dance Company. How are you?
ABBY: Good.
I just wanted to return your call.
Gianna had said that you called,
and I wanted to thank you.
All right.
Well, thank you so much for calling.
- How about that?
- So they didn't win.
- They did not win.
- Well, Kendall just had a rough weekend.
Last week at Dance Troupe
Challenge at Greensboro,
Kendall and Maddie won it all.
ANNOUNCER: Number 217, "Sugar and Spice,"
Abby Lee Dance Company!
[cheering and applause]
ABBY: Turns out there was an
error in the calculations,
and they were second.
And we all know what second is--
the biggest loser on the stage.
[music playing]
Well, once again, I'm not very happy.
When I left that competition,
everybody was gloating about
how amazing you were, the big winners.
Nothing blew me away.
I think all of you would
be interested in knowing
that our duet,
"Sugar and Spice," did not win.
There was a mathematical error.
And that means that "Sugar and Spice,"
Maddie and Kendall,
were not the overall
high score winning duet/trio.
So Greensboro, North Carolina,
which we thought was a smashing success,
turned out to be a big letdown.
JILL: Abby couldn't wait
to come in and tell us
that Kendall and Maddie
did not get first place.
And I think Abby reveled in that.
I watched the group number.
I saw some superb dancing
and I saw some horrendous dancing.
Kendall, whose place did you take?
ABBY: Sophia's.
Did you look like she would
have looked doing that number?
You don't know? I'll tell you. No way.
Sophia is still in LA.
She's there with her mom.
She's doing television.
She's doing performances.
So I need the girls to step
it up in Sophia's absence,
and they're just not doing it.
Listen to me. Learn this,
every single one of you--
when you're in here rehearsing
and you keep screwing up,
you don't need me to stand there
and point out every mistake.
Can't you see it?
If you don't want to be a better dancer,
I'm not going to waste my breath on you.
I want to worry about the kid
who wants to be a star,
not the kid that's here just so she gets
invited to all the birthday parties.
Kendall, you worked
your way up that pyramid
and now you're right back
where you started from.
Next, Maddie.
All for one, one for all,
it's about the team.
Kendall's there, you went with her.
Nia, you did an OK job.
I just don't see
the feet getting any better.
Moving up, Paige,
you placed in the top five.
That's an improvement.
Next,
Chloe, I thought you really
stood out starting the group dance.
Was the group fabulous?
No. I think if your mother
was more honest with you,
like she used to be two or three years
ago, you would continue to improve.
And on top of the pyramid is Mackenzie.
[applause]
It's like you bumped
your sister right down there.
Does it feel good to be up there?
Well, guess what?
You are back in the group routine.
If you could go against 9-year-olds
and win,
then you can dance with a 9-year-old.
I was the big winner last week,
so Abby put me on the top of the pyramid.
Pressure's on.
This weekend we will be
traveling to In10sity Dance
in Woodbridge, Virginia.
Your replacements
will be at the competition,
along with the rest of their studio.
When the moms walked out of my studio,
I replaced their kids.
That's what you do.
Two of those replacements,
Kaeli and Bella,
are going to be attending the
dance competition this weekend.
And I'm sure that they want nothing more
than to beat my team.
Mackenzie, you have a solo.
Not only are you
in this week's group routine,
but you are going to be featured
in the number, as well.
That's because this week we
are doing an acrobatic routine.
Chloe, I know acrobatics
is not your forte,
but your mom has stood at that desk
and told me on several occasions
that you have your standing back tuck.
So that's how the number
is going to start.
- Oh, no. Chloe is not doing a standing--
- ABBY: You're going
- to set your tuck.
- Oh, yes, she is.
- CHRISTI: No, Abby. I refuse.
- ABBY: Yup.
No. Abby, she does not
have permission to do that.
- You just said that she had it.
- I said that months ago.
Right, so it should be better.
CHRISTI: Abby telling Chloe
that she's starting the group dance
with a standing back
tuck really sets me off.
Because Abby knows that Chloe
is not confident in the standing
back tuck, so she's really
just setting her up to fail.
Chloe, do you think
you're confident enough?
Be honest, Chloe.
ABBY: Well, why would
you come and tell me your kid
- could do a back tuck?
- Because she--
When parents come and tell me things,
it's because they want me
to work it into the number.
CHRISTI: No. Chloe, you are not
doing it in the routine.
You know she is afraid
of gymnastics tricks.
She is not allowed to do it.
You know what? You had Paige do a standing
back in that dressing room
- and she broke her foot.
- No, I didn't!
Yes, you did!
I want to see your standing back tuck.
Can I try it?
ABBY: No. This is cement
underneath this carpeting.
[crunch]
You said, "I want to see
that standing back tuck."
Chloe, you are not
doing it in the routine.
KELLY: But the more we sit here and argue,
- the more they're not practicing.
- ABBY: I'm not arguing.
I invited a child to do a trick
that her mother said she could do.
Chloe, you were supposed
to do a solo this week.
But after the performance
your mother just gave,
we're going to hold off on that.
OK.
All right, girls, spread apart.
Mothers, you are dismissed.
Maybe you want to sit and really watch
upstairs instead of being on your phones.
Five, six, seven, eight--
I don't even get it.
ABBY: One, two--
GIANNA: Switch.
ABBY: The name of the group
routine is "Arabian Nights."
It's a contortion, acrobatic,
gymnastic, tumbling routine.
Jump up.
You got to jump your feet together.
It has it all, complete
with the authentic hands.
It has to be sharp, boom.
Do you think that I was wrong
for standing up for Chloe?
HOLLY: I don't think you're wrong, at all.
I just think that you fell
right into Abby's trap.
ABBY: One, two--
KELLY: I think this Arabian dance
will be a challenge for Paige
because Abby always
is yelling at her for her arms.
CHRISTI: Well, it's gonna
be a challenge for Chloe.
Because out of the group,
she's not-- A gymnast.
--a gymnast or an acrobat.
Paige, your elbows are lazy.
First time I'm telling you.
Let it be the last.
So do you think
that really bothers Maddie,
that Kenzie has all these solos
and is the lead?
I mean, that's usually Maddie's spot.
Yeah, but Maddie
it's not jealous of her sister.
She's proud of her.
But she gets stressed out.
Melissa, I suggested that
you get some of Christi's spunk
that she had at pyramid.
I just don't know how you can sit there,
like, and not say anything.
It's been a few weeks and Maddie
still hasn't had a solo.
It's hard. But, you know,
she knows she'll get one eventually.
Well, I'm going to talk to Abby.
[gasps] You are?
- Mm-hmm. Yeah, after--
- HOLLY: Good.
- About what?
- After rehearsal.
I'm proud of you. That's good.
I'm letting you all go. You are dismissed.
Go through that door.
Ab, can I talk to you
for a sec before you leave?
ABBY: Yeah. What?
MELISSA: I really would love for Maddie
to prove to you that she can win.
- I know, Melissa.
- MELISSA: And, you know--
But you have to realize that she was just
in a duet with Kendall.
And even though she was
a lot better than Kendall
and a lot stronger,
she didn't blow me away, either.
She is special.
And my daughter wants to dance.
ABBY: I know,
but why am I telling you that?
Why wouldn't the kid
that had the potential to make it,
to have a career in this business,
not have her own integrity,
her own ambition--
MELISSA: She wanted to come in.
--to get out of the car and walk in?
- She wanted to come. You're not--
- Then why didn't you-- why--
what kind of parent were you
to not let her?
If you're doing this for Kelly,
you're a fool.
Don't do this to your kid.
I've been committed to the studio.
But your daughter
has been given opportunity
- after opportunity--
- And I realize that.
- ABBY: --after opportunity.
- And I appreciate that.
I have sent her to New York for auditions.
- And she's gone every time.
- ABBY: I took her to LA.
I do all of these things, Melissa--
- And I know that.
- --and I called you.
- I know you did.
- ABBY: I called you.
I didn't call every one of those mothers.
- You--
- MELISSA: You know what?
- My daughter is special.
- --risked your kids--
special-- on Paige and Brooke.
I would have never picked up the phone
and called Sophia
if Maddie would have been
in this building working her butt off.
Well, you know,
we all make mistakes, Abby.
- I've been committed to this studio.
- Yeah, but what you did--
-- you hurt your own kid.
You didn't hurt me.
I-- I realize that, Abby.
No solo this weekend.
There is no way, Melissa.
You did this to Maddie, not me.
Well, I'm not going to worry about it.
Come on, let's go.
Get dressed, Mad.
Get your shoes on.
Who's going to have
the other solo this week?
Well, Melissa just asked me
if Maddie could do a solo.
- After that deal?
- GIANNA: No.
- ABBY: No way.
And now she wants a solo?
And now she wants a solo.
- MADDIE: (CRYING)
- MELISSA: It's OK.
MADDIE: I just really want to do one.
MELISSA: I know. You work hard, Maddie.
You don't miss classes.
You're a good girl. OK?
[music playing]
ABBY: Now you all realize that
we had to put an extra class
in the schedule because we're doing
an acrobatic routine this week.
So let's spread apart
and let's do some drills, quickly.
We teach acrobatics gymnastics
at our studio every single day.
But I feel the kids need an extra class
just to go through the tricks that
I'm gonna use in the routine.
Little better, little tighter.
GIANNA: Ready? Five, six--
CHRISTI: The group
dance this week is acrobatic.
And that makes me a little nervous
because acro is not Chloe's forte.
ABBY: OK. She would not be one
of the ones. Go ahead.
She's the one whose mother thinks
she can do the back tuck.
You're so crooked.
You're so-- all got alignment
from that left split
comes out in everything you do.
MELISSA: Why is Chloe crying?
'Cause Abby's awful to her.
Wouldn't you like
one free punch at Abby's face?
You know what? She's not happy unless
she's humiliating someone.
Chloe struggles in acrobatic class.
She's not flexible for acrobatics
and she's not strong for gymnastics.
But if I put a standing
back tuck in this routine,
everybody has to do it.
Put the mats away.
Any news on the solos?
- I think Chloe has one.
- JILL: Anybody?
- Chloe has a solo?
- CHRISTI: No.
- Not as far as I know.
- Didn't she learn one today?
KELLY: Well, was supposed
to at pyramid, but then--
CHRISTI: Well, she was supposed to.
JILL: When you asked her
yesterday for a solo,
what did Abby say?
MELISSA: Oh, she just kept ranting,
"I gave your daughter
all these opportunities," and I'm like,
I did a lot for you through these years.
She says we're ungrateful.
And ungrateful--
CHRISTI: That's being ungrateful.
- She's ungrateful.
- Right.
Well, Melissa, I'm glad you stuck with us
in the parking lot.
Because I know that was hard--
- Me, too.
- --for you to do.
HOLLY: I am, too.
And don't regret what you did.
A true friend would not be treating
you this way or your children.
MELISSA: I know Abby is still angry at me
for walking out on her
during the silent protest.
And now Maddie's suffering from it.
I'm really beginning to wonder
if I made the right decision
walking out with the moms.
ABBY: Five, six, seven, go.
[screams] What are you two doing?
Uh-oh.
Kenzie's crying Uh-oh.
- What happened?
ABBY: What's going on?
MELISSA: Mackenz-- Mackenz, are you OK?
All right. Go get a drink.
Come on.
I find it funny
that Melissa feels upset, mad.
My kid's always a backup dancer
and my kid never gets a solo.
Melissa and Maddie are making
such a big deal out of it
that they don't have a solo.
Well, like, welcome to my life,
my kids' life.
Melissa and Maddie can't stand it
that Maddie's is not the star.
I am fortunate that Chloe has solos often.
But you guys have gone
months, some of you.
One of the moms, when I was leaving here
last night,
grabbed me in the parking lot.
She said Melissa's really
second guessing her choice
to stick by you guys.
Melissa keeps saying
"Abby has ruined Maddie,
you know, I shouldn't have done it."
- That's done.
- CHRISTI: Nobody twisted her arm
and said you need to stick by us.
- She chose to do that.
- HOLLY: Yeah.
CHRISTI: Sometimes it's more important
to teach your daughter
to do the right thing
than to be on top of a pyramid
and get a solo.
"Arabian Nights"
better too well.
You are dismissed. I want to talk to you.
Chloe looks like she wants to throw up.
ABBY: Come here, Chloe.
I don't think you deserve a solo,
not the way your mother
speaks to me in the pyramid.
I want what's best for you as my dancer.
What am I going to do?
I'm in between a rock and a hard place.
Chloe, I'm giving you your solo back.
It's what time?
And we have one day,
and now I'm going to start it.
We could have been
finished with your solo.
It could be done by now.
Let's go.
Now the theme of the dance is haunted.
It's scary.
It's dark.
And the movement is similar
to what we just did in the group dance.
Understood?
Five, six, step across, seven.
Chloe is doing a lyrical
contemporary piece entitled "Haunted."
Chloe really has to be an actress
to pull off this routine.
She needs to be a haunted character.
The best way to think about that
is by thinking of her mother.
Down, cross, passé.
CHRISTI: I love watching Chloe dance.
And I think that every time
Chloe steps on stage
it helps make her a better dancer.
So I was really glad that Abby
finally, you know, bucked up
and was the grown up about it and said,
"Hey, Chloe you earned this.
"It's yours, regardless
of what your mother did."
ABBY: Right. Really beautiful leg.
Get that leg up and wing that foot.
And, Chloe, it's not OK to make your
own thing up and just keep going.
That is unacceptable now.
That was for a little kid.
I will see you tomorrow morning
ready to get on that bus.
And I want perfection.
[music playing]
Maddie, I want to talk to you.
MADDIE: Miss Abby brought me into Studio C
and wanted to have a talk with me.
I just wanted Miss Abby to understand
that, like, I love to dance,
and I think I want it
more than anyone else.
What's going on?
Why were you in your car
last night crying?
I was crying because I was just going
to ask you I could have a solo.
I just, like, am--
feel like this is, like, my home and--
Uh-uh.
Every opportunity I have given you
came from my heart.
Maddie won how many titles?
How many times was she on the top
of that pyramid?
Girls, come on. I want to get going
for the pyramid.
Where are you?
There's people standing
in the parking lot.
That was awful, Maddie.
I don't deserve that.
I didn't deserve any of it.
There's always another kid.
There's always somebody else.
We love you.
We were ready to work with you,
and you sat out there!
(CRYING) I'm sorry.
Why didn't you get out of the car
and go, no, I'm going in there?
I'm sorry.
Maddie, no solo.
Think about what you've done.
It's going to take a long time.
[music playing]
Mackenzie, you have one day, today.
You have right now to fix this dance
before we start the group rehearsal,
and you're competing tomorrow.
Brain in the head focused on nothing
but this right now.
Turn around.
All right, let's go.
[music playing]
Mackenzie is doing a contemporary
acrobatic routine
called "Dancing Barefoot."
She is used to going out on that stage
and smiling and making
her cute little faces.
Feet are sickled right there.
Go on your side and fix that. Fix it.
Yes.
Well, you know what? She's eight now.
I wanna see beautiful lines.
I wanna see real choreography.
I want to see her tell a story.
Maddie was able to do it
when she was eight.
Up, up, down, down, jeté, push, roll.
Roll. Sloppy feet, rolling around.
Step up.
All right. I need to know
more about Studio Bleu.
Well, Abby sure is enamored by them.
What are they known for, do you know?
Well, that's why I'm looking.
HOLLY: Although I know
the competition will have
more than one dance studio there,
the only one that Abby
cares about at this moment
- is Studio Bleu.
- Yeah.
- I'm looking under--
- JILL: Where are they located?
Well, they're in Ashburn, Virginia.
JILL: They'll probably
have amazing costumes
and amazing number,
and they probably
did it in nationals last year--
- Uh-huh.
- JILL: --and didn't whip it up.
And they're probably
coming out to beat our butts.
ABBY: Three, four, five--
you did it again.
You're moving your right hand.
Didn't you get home late?
We got home so late last night.
I got home later because Maddie talked
to Abby last night.
JILL: What happened?
Her and Abby talked and Abby cried.
JILL: Why would Abby cry?
MELISSA: Because that
Maddie was crying and saying,
you know, you're mad at me
for something my mother did
and you do-- you know,
basically she does it to all the kids.
Abby said, I love you and Gia loves you.
And, you know,
we were just really disappointed
in your mom and the decision she made.
And--
Isn't that a difference
in the conversation?
Because she sat there
and cried and had a nice moment
with your daughter, where my daughter
as she sat there last night, same thing,
and pretty much told her
that she was a piece of garbage
and didn't deserve to have anything.
I mean, I'm glad for you.
That's great, like,
that your kids are loved.
But it's terrible for everyone else.
ABBY: Could you quit running
up to the mirror so close?
Think!
Don't get so close so that you're tumbling
into the stool!
I'm not yelling anymore.
[music playing]
Hi. How are you doing?
Hello.
ABBY: We're headed to Woodbridge, Virginia
to attend In10sity Dance.
There's hundreds of great studios there,
and there's a ton of incredible dancers.
I'm excited to go there because two
of my replacement team members,
Bella and Kaeli, will be there
at In10sity Dance, competing against
the Abby Lee Dance Company.
[music playing]
JILL: Studio Bleu is from Virginia.
So we are coming to their hometown.
We are invading their turf.
And I'm pretty sure they want to beat us
and kick us out of there.
Thank you.
Watch out for Studio Bleu.
That's all I'm saying.
[cheering and applause]
Here we go.
Come on in, girls.
[cheering and applause]
You know who the kids
from Studio Bleu are.
Bella and Kaeli replaced you at your
studio, the Abby Lee Dance Company,
traveling to a competition
wearing my name on their back.
Keep your eyes out for them.
Make sure you are better than them,
stronger, fitter, smarter, sharper.
Do all of those things, you'll be fine.
Talent prevails.
I'm anxious to see their legs and feet,
and see how much they've improved
with my tricks of the trade.
But why would you give another
studio your tricks and trades?
ABBY: Because you quit, Kelly.
Your kids were sitting at home.
They weren't in the studio.
Mackenzie, you're my first one up.
All right?
You cannot miss a trick.
Understood?
You have to nail every single trick.
If the legs aren't straight
and the feet aren't pointed,
you're not gonna win. Go through it.
The pressure is on you. You won last week.
And I say it every time,
you know, getting to the top is one thing.
Staying there is another thing.
Mackenzie looks beautiful.
That turquoise costume
certainly looks like the beach.
But the kid has this look on her face
like she is scared to death.
Hey, come on, Mackenzie.
Now, remember, the pressure is on.
I'm counting on you to win this division.
Don't mess it up, kiddo.
Got it?
You're not serious enough, Mackenzie.
MELISSA: I'm a little
nervous for Mackenzie
to have this type of solo.
She can be a real cutesy on stage,
but this type of emotion
is different for her.
Let's go.
[music playing]
[cheering and applause]
Abby gave me a harder dance.
I'm freaking out that
I'm going to forget my solo.
ANNOUNCER: All right. Skipping ahead
just a little bit in your program
to entry number nine
in the Mini Solo Division,
this is Mackenzie with "Dancing Barefoot."
[cheering and applause]
[music playing]
(SINGING) I drove out
to the ocean to catch a breath.
Everybody needs to get away.
Far from all commotion to clear my head,
where I can relax
and take a break.
And it's so nice to feel
the sand between my toes,
soaking in the sun, letting go.
[cheering and applause]
(SINGING) And I've got time
to think about important things.
ABBY (VOICEOVER): Mackenzie
forgets her dance on stage.
Keep going.
Keep going. Keep going.
There's a one split second
where she goes completely blank.
(SINGING) Oh, oh, oh, yeah.
Oh, oh, oh, yeah.
[cheering and applause]
ABBY: The end-- she was early,
so she had to add another chin
stand in and ends up finishing
facing the wrong direction.
Dumb mistake, Mackenzie. Dumb mistake.
- You OK?
- Oh, yeah. I'm fine.
- What are you going to do?
- Yeah, you're right.
MELISSA: She's not Maddie.
- She what?
- MELISSA: She is not Maddie.
Hello!
Good job, Kenz!
Mackenzie, how do you feel like you did?
Mackenzie actually danced against eight
and nine-year-olds this week,
so I just don't think she was ready
for this type of dance.
ABBY: Well, well, well, get on stage
and forget your dance.
Looked like a deer in the headlights.
You were like this.
So, Mackenzie, let's get through
what all you did wrong.
You choreographed your own
dance at the end,
which I don't really appreciate.
You were early on the music.
You know, I don't wanna be mean.
I don't wanna be nasty.
I would have loved to walked in here
and had you run and hug me
and be so thrilled
with your performance,
but that's not what you do.
You were gonna be the overall
high score, eight and under,
go out there and do what you did.
You went out, you screwed up, you failed.
And you know what?
She's not ready to do a big girl dance.
I don't know what religion you all are,
but I'd start praying.
Because that's all we have left.
[music playing]
[cheering and applause]
ABBY: Chloe,
when you step out on the stage
we should have goose bumps. All right.
Ready? Hit play. Let's go.
[music playing]
(SINGING) They say you're doing well.
CHRISTI: Every time that Chloe has a solo
I'm always trying to be like,
"Oh, you know, it's OK."
But I want Chloe to win.
I really want her to go out there
and I want her to prove that
she is a force to be reckoned with.
Girls, if we bump into those kids
that showed up
to replace you, you will be nice
and you will say hello,
like I have taught you.
- OK. Make me proud.
- I will.
- Make yourself proud.
- OK.
OK.
ABBY: The kid that came in
that replaced you,
you're now up against.
Let's go.
Head up, confident.
All right. You're gonna be beautiful.
Right?
Going to be gorgeous?
- ABBY: Hey, ladies.
- Hi, Abby.
Abby, how are you.
Hi. Girls, this is Bella
and this is Kaeli.
- Hi.
- Tell them how old you are.
You-- when did--
were you not 10 at that audition?
Oh, you did. OK.
So, Chloe, you're 11.
So, all right. Well, best of luck.
- She's tall.
- GLORIA: She's confused.
You're very tall.
Yeah. I'm confused why they had to ask
their moms how old they were.
They just had birthdays.
I think they're just a little-
Because they compete at different ages.
You know the rules.
They compete different ages.
ABBY: And January 1st is the age.
- I just was wondering.
- They really like making fun of our kids.
- [laughs]
- No, no.
I was just wondering
because we have problems with people
all the time saying fake ages. So--
- Oh, no, no, no.
- --that's what we were wondering.
We run into these Studio
Bleu dancers in the hall,
and Abby's like,
"Oh, tell them how old you are."
And the kids are like, how old am I?
Like, how do you not know how old you are?
- Let's go.
- GLORIA: Good luck, guys.
- Good luck.
- You, too.
Good luck.
You know, we've seen these tricks
before by someone named Cathy.
And those people were, like, 27.
JILL: That was weird.
[music playing]
[cheering and applause]
ANNOUNCER: All right.
Coming to the stage next
in the Junior Solo Division,
this is entry number 21, Isabella,
with "Over and Over Again."
[cheering and applause]
[music playing]
(SINGING) Picture of you
ingrained in my mind,
I couldn't help coming undone.
If nothing works out in the end,
I will still be here
over and over and over again.
I don't believe you found your happiness.
I know what you need
and I know it's OK.
Ooh.
[cheering and applause]
ABBY: Bella was not as good
as I thought she was gonna be.
She never utilized her space.
I think Chloe has a good shot now.
ANNOUNCER: All right. Up next
in the Junior Solo Division,
this is entry number 22, Kaeli,
with "There's Always Hope."
[cheering and applause]
[music playing]
(SINGING) Sometimes a smile,
a gentle touch,
a soothing word
just can't be enough.
Into this world we are thrown.
And though it seems we're on our own,
it's what the moon, the sun,
the sky and stars are for.
There's always hope to get you through.
Enjoy the ride
'cause everything is gonna be all right.
[cheering and applause]
ABBY: Kaeli is an incredible dancer.
She's strong, yet graceful.
She has lovely lines, and she can turn
like nobody's business.
CHLOE I'm a little bit
nervous before my solo
because I don't really like it
when Miss Abby gets back
because she gets really loud
and kind of scary.
ANNOUNCER: All right. Coming to the stage
next in the Junior Solo Division,
this is entry number 20,
Chloe, with "Haunted."
[cheering and applause]
CHRISTI: Let's go, Miss Chloe!
[music playing]
(SINGING) They say you're doing well.
You're doing just fine.
I hear it all the time.
Although I give a smile,
I can't help but feel
like I've been left behind.
Oh, I'm hearing these stories
of your new found glory.
And I can't help but crumble inside.
And I thought it'd get easier,
but it's getting harder.
It's getting harder to hide.
[cheering and applause]
(SINGING) I'll get you
when I close my eyes.
Oh, baby, you're climbing
while I'm falling.
When I wake up, wake up, wake up,
I just fall back to the start.
[cheering and applause]
CHRISTI: When Chloe dances from the heart,
it's such a difference.
And I don't think that
she connected with this piece.
I think she did really well.
I think she hit her turns,
but it wasn't quite
what I know Chloe can do.
I thought she danced really well,
but I thought she danced
better in the studio.
I'm not gonna lie, I did.
I thought-- but I think
they're always better in the studio.
- I don't know.
- [cheering]
Good job!
You did good.
ABBY: What did you think
of Chloe's performance?
I thought it was good.
And I-- I was very honest with Chloe.
I thought she did it better in the studio.
I know Chloe can be great.
I've seen her be great.
Well, we need to get back to being great.
I-- I realize that,
and that's what I said to her.
And I'm sorry, Kelly, if this offends you.
But Chloe's future can't be at the expense
of your two kids.
Melissa, you can tell
all the other moms about it.
Right?
MELISSA: You know,
sometimes people make mistakes.
And you make mistakes, Abby, too.
- I've made lots of mistakes.
- OK.
So have I.
You are more worried
about your friendships
with all these women than your own kids,
and you know it.
- MELISSA: My kids-- no.
- ABBY: The same thing
about worrying about a guy
instead of your own kids.
Yes.
MELISSA: My kids come first to me.
- Going from one husband to another--
- So?
--instead of just worrying
about your kids? Please.
MELISSA: We have
a happy household.
Well, your kid
doesn't look very happy to me.
- Really?
- Absolutely.
ABBY: I think
Sophia Lucia rocked her world.
One more thing-- all of you kids,
you need to listen up.
If one person really has the dreams
and the passion
- to do this for a living--
- Stop.
- Keep it together.
- ABBY: --nothing should get in their way.
Melissa, listen to what I'm saying.
- I'm hearing you.
- Nothing should get in their way--
- And I know.
- --not your personal life--
I don't have a personal life.
ABBY: --not their dad's personal life,
not some other kid.
It has nothing to do with that.
Maddie needs to focus.
- The dance studio--
- MELISSA: I know.
--is the place that she thinks of as home.
I know that.
And you ripped her out of there
and let her sit in the parking lot
for 12 hours.
I feel sorry for Maddie.
She had a good thing going.
Melissa, you're doing
your kid an injustice.
I am not gonna sit in a dressing room
with a bunch of kids and a bunch
of disrespectful mothers.
[music playing]
Abby just took some things
out on Maddie instead of me,
and it's just her way of getting to me.
Stop. Stop, now.
Do you know what? It's OK to cry, though.
No, because she has all this makeup on.
- It's not OK to cry.
- Well, but I mean, it's OK to let it out.
- MELISSA: Because there's no reason.
- JILL: She's upset.
That woman just berated her mother,
her father, everybody.
You know what? You should be upset, too.
And you should have
put a stop to that woman
- saying that stuff.
- MELISSA: Do you know what?
It is what it is. I have a wonderful life.
You let her do that to you.
- I'm not gonna upset my child.
- She already upset her for you!
[music playing]
It's obvious
Abby's not coming back in here.
- No, obviously.
- No, she's not.
We're in the dressing room
getting ready to go on stage,
and Abby didn't even
run the dance with them.
CHRISTI: OK, girls.
If you're dressed, get over here.
KELLY: Christi was running
the dance with them.
Christi never took
a dance lesson on her life.
And Abby expects us
to go out there and get first?
CHRISTI: Beautiful feet, girls.
I might not be a dance teacher,
but I've watched enough dance
in my life to know what looks good
and what looks bad.
Straight legs. Straight legs, all of you.
100 times better.
Yay!
[music playing]
ANNOUNCER: All right.
Here we go
one more time in the Junior
Small Group Division.
This is entry number 47,
Studio Bleu.
[cheering and applause]
[music playing]
(SINGING) Who'll make me promises
when I'm in need,
give me back what I've lost
to help me believe?
Will you?
[cheering and applause]
(SINGING) And though
my heart beats like everyone's,
it's not the same.
I feel the same hurt as everyone.
[cheering and applause]
ABBY: I was totally moved by the number.
I thought it was outstanding.
They did it with grace.
This dance was an advanced routine.
I think it's important that we beat them
because Miss Abby always says
your replacements are better than you.
And I wanna prove to her
that we're better than them.
ANNOUNCER: This is entry number 26,
entitled "Arabian Nights."
JILL: Go, girls!
[cheering and applause]
[music playing]
Woo!
[cheering and applause]
ANNOUNCER: That was entry
number 26, "Arabian Nights."
MELISSA: I really think that it's gonna be
a close call this week,
Studio Blue and our number.
I think it's gonna be one and two,
hoping that we're number one.
ANNOUNCER: Thank you
so much for coming
and being part
of the competition.
All right. We are ready to move
into our Divisional Overalls.
We're gonna start off with the Elite
Mini Solo Division of competition.
In fourth place is Miss Taryn,
with act number two, "Amazing Grace."
[applause]
Third place is Miss Mackenzie
with act number nine,
"Dancing Barefoot."
[applause]
ABBY: Really, third?
She goes from first to third in six days?
What went wrong?
She was clearly out-danced.
We're going to jump now
to Elite Junior Soloists.
Fourth place is Miss Isabella
with act number 21,
"Over and Over Again."
[applause]
Your first runner up from our Elite Junior
Solo Division of competition is
Miss Chloe with act number 20, "Haunted."
[applause]
ABBY: Just imagine
if Chloe worked over the break,
if she had her mother being nice and sweet
and paying her bills on time.
Chloe would have been first.
Chloe would be amazing.
And last, but not least,
that top spot in the Elite Junior
Solo Division of competition
is Miss Kaeli with act number 22,
- "There's Always Hope."
- [cheering and applause]
Chloe beat Bella
but she didn't beat Kaeli,
not even close.
Moving now
into our Elite Junior Small Groups.
In fifth place is act number
10, "Cell Block Tango."
[applause]
Fourth place is act number
26, "Arabian Nights."
[applause]
[suspenseful music]
HOLLY: This is incredibly humbling.
Like, we have not come in fourth since--
I can't even remember.
Third place, with a score of 279 points,
is act number 27, "Hey, You."
[applause]
Second place,
with a score of 280.5 points,
is act number four, "Watching You."
[applause]
And last, but not least, that top spot
from our Elite Junior Small
Group Division of competition
belongs to act number 47, Studio Bleu.
[cheering and applause]
[music playing]
ABBY: Talk about a horrible weekend--
talk about a bad experience--
ugh, that was it.
I don't know what to say.
It was humiliating.
I was humbled by the experience.
- CHRISTI: Hey, girl!
- KELLY: Good job!
- JILL: Hello!
- Good job!
[music playing]
ABBY: National champions to fourth--
you just proved my point.
The break, the parking lot,
the work ethic--
went from national champions
against amazing dancers
to being fourth.
So if they did the routine
to the best of their ability,
then who's responsible here?
- You.
- Chloe's back tuck.
CHRISTI: Oh, my god, Abby.
You just can't let the whole
standing back tuck argument go.
You know, Chloe clearly
wasn't ready to do it.
Maybe you should look at the real reason
we got in fourth place, bad choreography.
ABBY: Chloe,
take a little check and imagine
if you were equally as flexible
on the right on the left,
and if you were on time
every single Monday.
Abby, her school is dismissed at 4:30.
- She comes--
- So she's late.
Why don't you pick her up
and see if you can get her there on time?
Why don't you just get her
an early dismissal on Mondays?
Because she's not getting
an early dismissal
because she's going to school!
Christi, stop making excuses
for your kid.
Do you have a great kid? Yes.
Every parent in America
has a great kid.
We get it.
Is her left split as good as her right?
No.
That's my concern.
I guess your mom's happy
with mediocre, too.
Chloe, you have
to put the work on--
- Stop picking on my kid!
- I am not picking on your kid!
- You pick on the children!
- Because you're an idiot!
You are the biggest idiot I've ever met!
If you would get off your phone
and worry about your kid,
and worry about her left leg--
Abby, there are so many things
I can say to you right now
and I'm going say nothing.
Really? Really, Christi?
- Yeah. OK, fatty.
- ABBY: Really?
- Fatty, fatty, fatty, fatty--
- If that's all you got,
bring it on, babe.
CHRISTI: And you know what?
It doesn't matter--
ABBY: Because I can lose
weight, but ugly is to the bone.
- CHRISTI: You know what?
- To the bone.
Exactly the point.
You are ugly to the core.
Really?
Girls, why don't you guys go outside?
Do you hear what your mother's saying?
That's what she's teaching you.
CHRISTI: That's what
you just said about her mother!
Because I think you act
like an idiot in front of her!
Again, the big lie.
If I just keep saying it over
and over again, it'll be true.
I feel sad for you.
It's like putting silk stockings
on a mule with some of you.
Or lipstick on a pig.
[laughs]
ABBY: Next, on "Dance Moms"--
CATHY: I need to be Abby Lee Miller.
That's why you guys are here.
ABBY: And you all know
how I get when Cathy shows up.
CHRISTI: She'll bark when she sees Abby.
I bark when I see Abby, too.
JILL: I really need her to look great.
'Cause when you look good,
you feel good, you do good.
I don't like people going behind my back.
It wasn't behind your back.
I thought I was helping you out.
Kendall, I don't think
you'll be doing your solo.
Then I'm going home.
(CRYING)
Nice job, Chloe!
Christi, worry about your own kid!